Usuiy Universal Disaster Studies is a project that aims to bring awareness about disasters from all around the cosmos. Our efforts are funded by Usuiy Grand Operations.

Abavan was once like the familiar tale of Earth. In approximately the 2030 era, an apocalypse began. Earthquakes started tearing the planet’s surface apart, and all-consuming darkness started to creep out of the cracks. We lost all sight of the planet for nearly a century afterward, and we are still uncertain what caused the disappearance, or if it was merely a veil. After the planet reappeared, the atmosphere was extremely dark and obscured attempts to observe the surface. Once we finally managed to penetrate the cloud, we uncovered rather disturbing results. The surface is covered in colossal rifts that extend miles below the surface. We suspect that the destruction originated below the lithosphere. Constant geysers of darkness surge out of these rifts, flooding through the upper atmosphere and presumably behaving similarly to convection currents, re-entering the ground after a while airborne and flowing back up to exit in a surge once more.


Today, Abavan’s global human population has nearly reached a hundred million. Almost everybody lives in protected cities governed by a cult-like religious and militaristic organization called The Fatherhood of Purity. These cities are called the Pure Cities by the residents. The entire atmosphere outside these cities has been corrupted by the darkness that plagues their land. Any matter it touches becomes an interesting dark mass that behaves mostly like the material it was before corruption, but upon closer inspection appears to have no atomic makeup. The Fatherhood has given this substance the scientific name “Ulidim” (yoo-lih-dim), but it is colloquially known as Impurity or the Impure Plague by residents.

The Pure cities survive on a special glowing red plasma-like material called “Vitisi” (vye-dis-eye) that naturally repels Ulidim. Vitisi is extremely conductive and moves in a chain motion when electricity is passed through it. The Fatherhood has created mechs and droids to utilize this, creating motor functions by connecting complex Vitisi skeletons to neural networks and binding titanium and Vitisi. Exposed lines of Vitisi run across the surface of the droids’ bodies in stylistic designs, providing aesthetic benefit and granting protection from Ulidim for journeys into the wastes. None of their knowledge of how this is done has been shared with the public.

Ulidim slowly becomes less and less like its original form and gravitates toward a common solid, liquid, or gaseous form over time. This type of mass seems to dominate the old Ulidim on the planet (the atmosphere, the wastes, the oceans, etc.). Ulidim can be restored to its original form by forcefully blending it with Vitisi. The Vitisi required for this is far too much to do anything about the planet’s current state, unfortunately. If too much time has passed since the Ulidim was formed, then a blueprint material is needed for the Ulidim to imitate, and almost any matter of the same state (solid, liquid, gas) can be formed. Pure Scouts use backup Vitisi packs to restore critical parts while scouting and hunting.

Outside the Pure Cities, an odd life form somehow survives. Made of Ulidim and piloted by Vitisi skeletons, (already breaking supposed rules, but we know less about Ulidim than we do about the Ether plane) the attili (ad-ih-lee) (“The Consumed” as named by local popular culture) can move between two planes of reality. When they transport their mass to another plane, they leave their Vitisi skeletons behind to protect their mind and body from deteriorating. They present a threat and a resource to the Fatherhood, as Vitisi is farmed from their corpses. They seem to be of relatively low intelligence, comparable to that of parrots or crows. They take similar forms to the Pure Scouts that hunt them and learn fighting skills from said droids.

